Embrace the Divine Comedy
M

Helllooo Everyone!

Yeah sorry I left early. This is a bit awkward. It is what it is. I probably did not have the chance to say goodbye to you. Well, lucky you, because this letter is here just for that: to give you a proper goodbye. If I was a ghost and somehow able to speak to you (under time pressure), it would be my final wish to have some final words to you. Since there are a lot of people I want to say goodbye to, the following is addressed to everyone! 

Thank you!
Thank you very much, from the bottom of my heart, for being part of this wonderful life I have had! When you get to read or hear this, you have definitely been an impactful character in the play of my life’s story and thus definitely contributed to its beauty. My life is a magnificent piece of art and you are its colors that made it vibrant and worth living. I am grateful for all the experiences I had, good and bad, and I can safely say that I had a massive surplus of good experiences in my life. I also think that having a large spectrum of feelings from the brightest to the darkest is a necessity to give this artwork the light and shadow contours to form a meaningful masterpiece. I love you all for making me say this. I felt showered in love.

How I think.
There was a point in my 20s when I began having a higher level of appreciation. Humans love to take things for granted, and you can probably relate first being happy about having something new and then completely normalizing and expecting it later. We do it all the time with basically everything and it is a necessary and automatic process. But we can stop and remind ourselves from time to time and imagine what it would be like to not have certain things, appreciate again all the things that have come to us, or consider how much we earned the things we have. I have often said that I am filthy lucky in life, and I probably was (very privileged), but expressing that was an act of appreciation that is directly linked to my sense of love for life.

Furthermore, I have also developed a sense of appreciation to simply “exist”. And I would like to briefly describe what I mean: There is a rock floating through deep space and things started to evolve on it to a level where those things started to have a conscious experience and are able to feel and be alive and we get to be part of that. To me, it is an actual miracle that a conscious emergence exists, and its mysterious formation has left me open to the idea that there is maybe more to life than we can see. I find it kind of mysterious, kind of insane, kind of absurd, and kind of hilarious, which is why I like to describe my experience of life as a divine comedy. The most fleshed out experience one can engage in. I think today is a good day to remind you that being a living being with rich feelings is something worth appreciating. To me, a universe without anyone witnessing it would be a shame, and to be a witness is a privilege. And being alone in it would quickly suck too. Having each other in it is what made it truly magical.

With this said, I want you to trust me when I say that I have had countless days where I felt so complete and blessed that I really believed “I have lived enough”. Where I embodied the sensation that if my life ended now, it would have been perfect. Yes, even in my 20s! A sensation that every extra day is a gift on top of an already perfect gift. I do not feel entitled to more! I am ok if those gifts stop coming. I am ok with leaving! I don’t think there “should be” a minimum age to reach before dying, as it is something that changed historically over time. Completion is what matters to me. Sometimes it was an awkward feeling, because it feels like a taboo to allow death in or to romanticize it like I did. And by all means, I continued indulging in the pleasure of being alive because why wouldn’t I? Also, I love you and didn’t want to leave a painful hole in your life. But some day I have to leave anyway.

I wrote this some time before dying so I don't know how it happened. I hope it was smooth! Maybe it was an accident. Maybe it was utter shit. It does not matter anymore. It’s done. I’m not suffering from it. I’m quite literally over it (lol). I believe that I am now in a place without suffering, peacefully not-existing. I came from the void of non-existence into this life and now I return to it.

And now to the part where I really really want to help you cope.
The main goal of this letter is to fulfill my real last wish: that you learn to move on with my departure. I love you! In case I died “surprisingly young” I want you to remember that I felt so complete with my life. If you have problems with the hole I am leaving behind: I apologize. I’m very sorry I left. I wish I could have left without leaving that hole. I’ll do a better job in another life. But for now please please please accept and respect that I left and don’t call me back. Allow me to leave. If all else fails, think of it like this: I packed my stuff and went to a monastery to just disconnect from the modern busy life and just meditate and farm for the rest of my life. An idea that I actually romanticised. In that case, I would be equally away from your life.

But if there is one preferred way I wish you to embrace my passing with, it is in the essence of my final words that I try to pass on to you: the sense of appreciation for existence that I carried. I wish that you can focus your mind to the appreciation that we have been able to meet and to play such roles in each other’s life. Furthermore, I want you to also take a moment, close your eyes, take a deep breath and try to not take your own existence for granted. You are alive. You feel. You interact with this world, you interact with the people around you, and whatever you believe in, it is so special that you can do that. I wish you to see that.

Sorry if this is all so cheese! It's a big topic and the last thing you will hear from me, literally. :D. I hope you learn something meaningful from my death!
 
Safe travels and appreciation for your divine comedy,

M.

